# R-Birthweight-predictive-model
Linear regression model using R used to predict birthweight.

To try and build a regression model to predict the birthweight of babies from the data in the Birthweight dataset, I started with five different categories (headcirumference,length,Gestation,motherage,fage). Next, I ran the correlation matrix on the independent variables and found out that motherage and gestation are highly correlated. Therefore, I decided to switch gestation for mheight. When I rerun the correlation matrix, I found that lenght and motherage are correlated at 0.89 but under .9 so I decided to leave it in. Next, it was time to run the model. First, only headcircumference and length are significant, so I removed mheight with highest p value and rerun the model. Second attempt, still only headcircumference and length significant, so I removed motherage. Third, still only headcircumference and length significant, so I removed fage. Lastly I got a model that has headcircumference and length significant at 0.001 level. When examining the residuals vs fitted values plot, it doesn’t seem to show a non-linear relationship. The partial plots of headcircumference and birthweight was linear. On the other hand, length and birthweight plot showed about 5 observations that suggest non linearity but overall seemed linear. I attempted cubic root and log transformation but it didnt make it any more linear so I decided to leave it in. When checking the boxplot for outliers, I found only one outlier and it’s not too far off so I leave it there. The plots checking for the Homoskedasticity of residuals all seem linear and the assumption doesn’t seem to be violated. Residuals don’t seem to violate normality based on the normal probability plot and the shapiro wilk test (p=0.2). Based on all of these assumptions, none of them seem to be violated. The only concern was the partial plot of length and birthweight, but I stand by the decision the keep it this way. Lastly, the final model goes

Birthweight = -14.1277 +0.8724 x headcircumference + 0.4929 x length.

F=37.53, Multiple R^2=0.6581, Adjusted R^2=0.6405, p<0.001.
